The Joe Rogan.
Experience. Every time I go into Washington, DC,
every time I go into the Wegmans, there's a big Washington football team.
Uh, uh, Tostito's potato chips with the Washington football team name on there.
And, and, um, uh.
And is that a offensive word? Like me even saying that like right there,
is that offensive?
Yes. Yes. Um, not to everybody. Um,
but the majority of, of native American groups tribes,
they've all let the team know that, that, uh,
that that name is offensive. Uh,
and they still won't change it. They don't, uh, they say it's honoring,
it's honoring native Americans. Uh,
that term is used. Um, uh,
and you see it in historic records, uh, to count, um,
Indian skins or scalps that have been, uh, taken from,
uh, Indian people. Um,
it's an offensive, it's not just derogatory or demeaning,
but it's.
We'll be really clear what you're saying when you're saying skins and scallops.
I mean, dead people.
Yeah. Um, uh, yeah. And sorry, um.
Uh, this, this is the number one reason why I wanted to have you here.
I want it, I want it from your perspective, because for us, we get, oh yeah,
that's an offensive word to her. That's offensive. I heard that's offensive,
but the majority of people are not talking to someone who's deeply ingrained in
native American issues and culture like you are.
So you get explained to us that, you know, I mean, it makes sense, right.
If we, if it was, it was, you know,
think about some derogatory term for someone somewhere. I mean,
even if it was like, kind of derogatory,
like if they were called the Washington crowds and it was all based on Germans,
like a lot of German people would probably be really off at that. Like, Hey,
you know, that's kind of, like, why are you calling us that?
But it's the chiefs, Kansas city cheese,
what other native American names there's been a ton of them. Right. Yeah.
But Braves there's a lot of.
Other Braves still around. Yeah. Yes. And they still have that name, so all.
Has anybody gave given in and changed their name?
Uh, um, I'm I, yes, there has.
And there's been really a movement with high school colleges. Um,
and, uh, I don't know the status of any, um, uh,
you know, as far as NFL or, or national teams, um,
Syracuse, um, Syracuse university had, um,
a derogatory mascot that they changed, uh, some years back, um,
because of the tribes there. Um, they're now in the state of New York, um,
fought for that.
Uh, what was that mascot? I.
Can't remember, but now they're there, there's some kind of like orange,
it's an orange, super orange. Yeah. But,
um, that's not hurting anybody's feelings. Yes.
March, same with like toroidal engines.
There was a great engineer up in Lodi that was revisiting to Royals
and he had a, he had a Ford focus that would do his,
like his daughter's old car with a blown up motor.
He had his own toroidal motor that he had developed that could run from the
energy in the charge particles, in the air.
What this thing did like 15 miles an hour on a flat test track,
running on air.
Charged particles in the air. Yes. Sonically.
Charged particles.
As the technology improved that 15 miles an hour.
It could be a real speed. Yeah. Wow.
Yeah. And then that same guy,
I saw him once at a trade show and I was exhibiting at the show as well.
So I was there on setup day. I was bored out of my gourd. We were,
I was already set up in the Ford booth.
So I'm just walking around sort of sniffing around and see this trippy scientist
guy in his lab coat. And this little booth. It was like, you know,
six by 10 foot booth. And, you know,
at a show where people have like 200 by 60 foot boots and it's got this odd
little toroidal thing and then a bigger toroidal thing and literally like a
chalkboard. So I'm like, dude, what's going on? So I started talking about,
he starts explaining the technology and what he was doing,
and like the smaller one at 300 foot pounds of torque,
the larger one had 2000 and he was looking to develop it for
rail cars, for semis, for cars, like, and on and on and on. And he's like, yeah,
the biggest problem is stopping it once it gets going,
because the toroidal structure meant that the compression cycle from 12 to two
of that first cylinder was such that when the combustion occurred and it
propelled the next piston into the next combustion cycle and kept going.
So getting that power out of the central crank was a challenge.
And then how to stop the thing was like the bigger challenge,
but they'd run on like horse,
ion charged particles, uh, diesel gas. I didn't even need spark plugs.
So I'm like blown away by this. I go back the next day, where do you go?
Boots gone, empty, done. And I have the guy's info line.
Try to reach out to him. Website gone website.
I looked at the night before gone got gobbled up
five years later.
I see him again at another trade show with another kick design. And man,
was he a bitter man? It's like, yeah, never again,
because they bought it and they shelved it. I'm never selling anything again.
them. I'm licensing to specific channels of applications and that's it,
his new product.
So what do you think happened if you're a conspiracy theorist?
Do you think someone bought them out and just.
I'm a small, independent business owner, real realist in that hell yes.
Someone didn't like.
That and they shelved that. So they bought it and then just shelved it.
Uh, my wife is part of like something like it's called a mommy group.
So it's like a connection of online of all these mommies and on like all over
LA. And what they do is they post people will post. They need.
So like one of the moms just had to get it. They don't have any wet wipes.
And so then all the other moms will be like, oh, we've got wet wipes.
And then right now they're just leaving them on the door.
So people come and get them. So it's like,
I think the community thing is exactly right.
But also people have to maybe transcend money for a second and figure out ways
to set up in their community. Like, what do you need?
What do I have? And then start some form of like trade or just giving people,
you know, there was someone who set up a toilet paper exchange in LA,
where he was just like, if you have extra toilet paper, bring it.
And then he had toilet paper and he was just giving it out to people who are,
you know, that's,
I think that's the sort of thing we're going to have to start doing if we can,
you know, it's like right now there's old people who they they're,
they can't do, man.
Do anything they're terrified. They can't even get online. If you know them,
you got to help them. And this is, uh, you know, this is a weird time for us,
but it's a time for us to reset. You know, it's not, it's not good.
I'm not saying it's good, but I'm saying there's a,
we can get a positive out of this.
The people that make through the people that make it through,
we can get a positive out of this. And the positive is community's important.
It's really important. And it,
it seemed like it was an important cause it seemed like we had everything set
up. So he didn't have to engage with people. It's not the right way to do it.
It's not good for anybody now that that kind of life is not good.
And the detachment that we have, I mean, that's why,
why do you think people have road rage on the highway? You know,
when they're locked in their little box,
separated from people in a way that they, they, they wouldn't have it in person.
If it was just, I mean,
it's only a thin piece of metal and glass separating from these people with
that.
There's the other added factor of the heightened senses because you're driving
fast and you realize you might have to make quick movements.
So dumb things people do are elevated and they're even more dumb,
but it's also that you're detached. You're, you're in these boxes.
Right? It's like a weird dream.
We've done weird to each other.
We're all gummed up. And that way it's like something it's like,
it's like a fungus that grew on the circuitry of society and start,
or it's like, you know, when they talk about the, uh,
dolphins and the whales being up by the high-tech sonar,
they're using and washing up on the beach because the sonar is messing up their
ability to communicate with each other. It's like,
there's this kind of technological sonar that has completely made
us disconnected from the earth.
Essentially like our earth connection has been replaced by a
technological connection. Now technology comes from the earth,
but we're talking about a secondary thing. Can compare it to,
you know, your feet touching the ground,
being around another human and like recognizing them as having exactly the same
thing you have, which is they want to be happy, you know,
feeling the connection between people when you're with someone. I mean,
I don't know if you've ever done that,
but just like the next time you're around anybody that you're like buying from,
or that you don't normally just kind of go by feel that connect.
You could feel it. There's an energetic connection that you can feel there.
That's easy to overlook.
Hell week is another good example.
It starts Sunday in the evening and ends Friday in the afternoon and you get
about two hours of sleep on Wednesday.
That's it it's horrendous to go through.
And it's pretty entertaining as an instructor because you can just totally with
the students cause they're off their rocker by Tuesday afternoon.
But almost all of the attrition occurs from Sunday night until I'd say Tuesday
morning and beyond that,
you're probably gonna make it through because you've invested so much.
But the advice that I was given when I went through was don't look at how we as
a five day pipeline, just make it to your next meal.
They have to feed you every six hours.
So if I can stack six hours on six hours on six hours and just focus
on getting to the next meal, it doesn't matter how much I'm in pain.
Doesn't matter how cold I am. If I can just get to the next meal,
I'll get a reprieve, a mental reset,
and I can continue on that's that in combination with some,
you know,
the mental toughness is how you approach and set your goals and then resilience.
And my definition of resilience would be the ability to get bent and come back
stronger than you were before.
And the way you do that is by bending yourself as often as possible,
which you do all the time by running sprint surgery. You know what I mean?
You're doing that stuff. You're mentally tough because of that.
And if you can apply that resilience to approaching,
setting and approaching your goals from digestible perspectives you can
accomplish in Santa amount. So that's really what I mean,
it's a physical test, but we're just testing the mind.
Can the individual ignore the big and focus on the small,
can you do the step that you need to do and not get overwhelmed regardless if
you're tired, exhausted, hungry, cold. I mean, that's really all it is.
It's not a complex training program. There's the ocean, there's the beach.
There's some telephone poles, there's some boats.
And then later on we introduced scuba gear and towards the tail end of it,
you know, some demolition and pistol and rifle.